projects/rocprofiler-compute/docs/install/grafana-setup.rst, before:

.. meta::
   :description: ROCm Compute Profiler Grafana server installation and deployment
   :keywords: ROCm Compute Profiler, ROCm, profiler, tool, Instinct, accelerator, AMD,
              install, deploy, Grafana, server, configuration, GUI

***************************************************
Setting up Grafana server for ROCm Compute Profiler
***************************************************

A Grafana server is *not required* to profile or analyze performance data
from the CLI. It's a supplementary mechanism to help you import performance
data and examine it in a detailed
`Grafana <https://github.com/grafana/grafana>`_ dashboard GUI.

Learn about installing and configuring the main ROCm Compute Profiler tool in
:ref:`core-install`.

Setting up a Grafana instance for ROCm Compute Profiler requires the following basic software
dependencies.

* `Docker Engine <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/>`_

The recommended process for enabling the server-side of ROCm Compute Profiler is to use the
provided ``Dockerfile`` to build the Grafana and MongoDB instance.

.. _grafana-mongodb-setup:

Set up Grafana and MongoDB
==========================

Once you've decided where to host the Grafana and MongoDB instance, complete the
the following setup instructions.

Install MongoDB utilities
-------------------------

ROCm Compute Profiler uses the
`mongoimport <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/database-tools/mongoimport/>`_
utility to upload data to your Grafana instance's backend database.

Use the following commands to install MongoDB utilities for Ubuntu 20.04.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ wget https://fastdl.mongodb.org/tools/db/mongodb-database-tools-ubuntu2004-x86_64-100.6.1.deb
   $ sudo apt install ./mongodb-database-tools-ubuntu2004-x86_64-100.6.1.deb

.. note::

   Find installation instructions for other distributions in
   `MongoDB Database Tools Downloads <https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/database-tools/releases/archive>`_.

.. _grafana-persistent-storage-setup:

Set up persistent storage
-------------------------

Bind MongoDB to a directory on the host OS to create a local backup in case of a
crash or reset. This is called *creating a persistent volume*.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/persist && cd /usr/local/persist/
   $ sudo mkdir -p grafana-storage mongodb
   $ sudo docker volume create --driver local --opt type=none --opt device=/usr/local/persist/grafana-storage --opt o=bind grafana-storage
   $ sudo docker volume create --driver local --opt type=none --opt device=/usr/local/persist/mongodb --opt o=bind grafana-mongo-db

.. _grafana-docker-container:

Build and launch the Docker container
-------------------------------------

You're now ready to build your ``Dockerfile``. Navigate to your ROCm Compute Profiler install
directory to begin.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ cd grafana
   $ sudo docker-compose build
   $ sudo docker-compose up -d

.. note::

   To troubleshoot Docker container build failures related to certificate verification, try
   disabling any network proxy services on the host system. These proxy services can interfere
   with OpenSSL's ability to retrieve a correct certificate chain when the container accesses
   external websites.

The TCP ports for Grafana (``4000``) and MongoDB (``27017``) in the Docker
container are mapped to ``14000`` and ``27018``, respectively, on the host side.

.. tip::

   In the event that either your Grafana or MongoDB instance crashes fatally,
   just restart the server. Navigate to your install directory and run:

   .. code-block::

      $ sudo docker-compose down
      $ sudo docker-compose up -d

.. _grafana-dashboard-setup:

Set up the Grafana dashboard
----------------------------

Once you've launched your Docker container you should be able to reach Grafana
at ``http://<host-ip>:14000``. The default login credentials for your first-time
Grafana setup are:

* **Username**: ``admin``
* **Password**: ``admin``

.. figure:: ../data/install/grafana_welcome.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana dashboard welcome screen
   :width: 800

   Grafana's welcome screen.

.. _grafana-datasource-setup:

Configure the MongoDB data source
---------------------------------

You must configure your MongoDB data source in Grafana before first-time use.
Navigate to Grafana's **Configuration** page to add the "Omniperf Data"
connection.

.. figure:: ../data/install/datasource_config.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana data source configuration
   :width: 800

   Grafana's Configuration page.

Configure the following fields in the data source settings.

.. list-table::
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - HTTP URL
     - ``http://localhost:3333``

   * - MongoDB URL
     - ``mongodb://temp:temp123@\<host-ip>:27018/admin?authSource=admin``

   * - Database Name
     - ``admin``

After configuring these fields, click **Save & test** to make sure your
connection is successful.

.. figure:: ../data/install/datasource_settings.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana data source settings
   :width: 800

   Grafana data source settings.

.. note::

   To avoid potential DNS issues, you might need to use the actual IP address
   for the host node in the MongoDB URL.

.. _grafana-import-dashboard-file:

Import the ROCm Compute Profiler dashboard file
-----------------------------------------------

From the **Create** → **Import** page, upload the dashboard file,
``/dashboards/Omniperf_v{__VERSION__}_pub.json`` from the
:doc:`ROCm Compute Profiler tarball <core-install>`.

Edit both the dashboard **Name** and the **Unique identifier (UID)** fields to
uniquely identify the dashboard. Click **Import** to complete the process.

.. figure:: ../data/install/import_dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana's import dashboard
   :width: 800

   Grafana's Import dashboard.

.. _grafana-select-workload:

Select and load the ROCm Compute Profiler workload
--------------------------------------------------

Once you have imported a dashboard you're ready to begin. Start by browsing
available dashboards and selecting the dashboard you have just imported.

.. figure:: ../data/install/opening_dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Opening your ROCm Compute Profiler dashboard in Grafana
   :width: 800

   Opening your ROCm Compute Profiler profiling dashboard in Grafana.

Remember that you need to upload workload data to the MongoDB backend before
analyzing in your Grafana interface. See a detailed example of this in
:ref:`grafana-gui-import`.

After a workload has been successfully uploaded, you should be able to select it
from the workload dropdown located at the top of your Grafana dashboard.

.. figure:: ../data/install/grafana_workload_selection.png
   :align: center
   :alt: ROCm Compute Profiler workload selection in Grafana
   :width: 800

   Selecting your ROCm Compute Profiler workload in Grafana.

For more information on how to use the Grafana interface for analysis see
:doc:`/how-to/analyze/grafana-gui`.

Commit message:

Remove rocscope related code and add deprecation warning for mongo db usecase (#744)
* Remove rocscope related code

* Add deprecation warning for database update mode which is used for grafana and mongodb functionality

[ROCm/rocprofiler-compute commit: cdd41dee40481f8c847cb932b0ebbb7092fc324f]

projects/rocprofiler-compute/docs/install/grafana-setup.rst, after:

.. meta::
   :description: ROCm Compute Profiler Grafana server installation and deployment
   :keywords: ROCm Compute Profiler, ROCm, profiler, tool, Instinct, accelerator, AMD,
              install, deploy, Grafana, server, configuration, GUI

***************************************************
Setting up Grafana server for ROCm Compute Profiler
***************************************************

.. warning::

   Grafana and MongoDB functionality is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.

A Grafana server is *not required* to profile or analyze performance data
from the CLI. It's a supplementary mechanism to help you import performance
data and examine it in a detailed
`Grafana <https://github.com/grafana/grafana>`_ dashboard GUI.

Learn about installing and configuring the main ROCm Compute Profiler tool in
:ref:`core-install`.

Setting up a Grafana instance for ROCm Compute Profiler requires the following basic software
dependencies.

* `Docker Engine <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/>`_

The recommended process for enabling the server-side of ROCm Compute Profiler is to use the
provided ``Dockerfile`` to build the Grafana and MongoDB instance.

.. _grafana-mongodb-setup:

Set up Grafana and MongoDB
==========================

Once you've decided where to host the Grafana and MongoDB instance, complete the
the following setup instructions.

Install MongoDB utilities
-------------------------

ROCm Compute Profiler uses the
`mongoimport <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/database-tools/mongoimport/>`_
utility to upload data to your Grafana instance's backend database.

Use the following commands to install MongoDB utilities for Ubuntu 20.04.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ wget https://fastdl.mongodb.org/tools/db/mongodb-database-tools-ubuntu2004-x86_64-100.6.1.deb
   $ sudo apt install ./mongodb-database-tools-ubuntu2004-x86_64-100.6.1.deb

.. note::

   Find installation instructions for other distributions in
   `MongoDB Database Tools Downloads <https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/database-tools/releases/archive>`_.

.. _grafana-persistent-storage-setup:

Set up persistent storage
-------------------------

Bind MongoDB to a directory on the host OS to create a local backup in case of a
crash or reset. This is called *creating a persistent volume*.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/persist && cd /usr/local/persist/
   $ sudo mkdir -p grafana-storage mongodb
   $ sudo docker volume create --driver local --opt type=none --opt device=/usr/local/persist/grafana-storage --opt o=bind grafana-storage
   $ sudo docker volume create --driver local --opt type=none --opt device=/usr/local/persist/mongodb --opt o=bind grafana-mongo-db

.. _grafana-docker-container:

Build and launch the Docker container
-------------------------------------

You're now ready to build your ``Dockerfile``. Navigate to your ROCm Compute Profiler install
directory to begin.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ cd grafana
   $ sudo docker-compose build
   $ sudo docker-compose up -d

.. note::

   To troubleshoot Docker container build failures related to certificate verification, try
   disabling any network proxy services on the host system. These proxy services can interfere
   with OpenSSL's ability to retrieve a correct certificate chain when the container accesses
   external websites.

The TCP ports for Grafana (``4000``) and MongoDB (``27017``) in the Docker
container are mapped to ``14000`` and ``27018``, respectively, on the host side.

.. tip::

   In the event that either your Grafana or MongoDB instance crashes fatally,
   just restart the server. Navigate to your install directory and run:

   .. code-block::

      $ sudo docker-compose down
      $ sudo docker-compose up -d

.. _grafana-dashboard-setup:

Set up the Grafana dashboard
----------------------------

Once you've launched your Docker container you should be able to reach Grafana
at ``http://<host-ip>:14000``. The default login credentials for your first-time
Grafana setup are:

* **Username**: ``admin``
* **Password**: ``admin``

.. figure:: ../data/install/grafana_welcome.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana dashboard welcome screen
   :width: 800

   Grafana's welcome screen.

.. _grafana-datasource-setup:

Configure the MongoDB data source
---------------------------------

You must configure your MongoDB data source in Grafana before first-time use.
Navigate to Grafana's **Configuration** page to add the "Omniperf Data"
connection.

.. figure:: ../data/install/datasource_config.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana data source configuration
   :width: 800

   Grafana's Configuration page.

Configure the following fields in the data source settings.

.. list-table::
   :stub-columns: 1

   * - HTTP URL
     - ``http://localhost:3333``

   * - MongoDB URL
     - ``mongodb://temp:temp123@\<host-ip>:27018/admin?authSource=admin``

   * - Database Name
     - ``admin``

After configuring these fields, click **Save & test** to make sure your
connection is successful.

.. figure:: ../data/install/datasource_settings.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana data source settings
   :width: 800

   Grafana data source settings.

.. note::

   To avoid potential DNS issues, you might need to use the actual IP address
   for the host node in the MongoDB URL.

.. _grafana-import-dashboard-file:

Import the ROCm Compute Profiler dashboard file
-----------------------------------------------

From the **Create** → **Import** page, upload the dashboard file,
``/dashboards/Omniperf_v{__VERSION__}_pub.json`` from the
:doc:`ROCm Compute Profiler tarball <core-install>`.

Edit both the dashboard **Name** and the **Unique identifier (UID)** fields to
uniquely identify the dashboard. Click **Import** to complete the process.

.. figure:: ../data/install/import_dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Grafana's import dashboard
   :width: 800

   Grafana's Import dashboard.

.. _grafana-select-workload:

Select and load the ROCm Compute Profiler workload
--------------------------------------------------

Once you have imported a dashboard you're ready to begin. Start by browsing
available dashboards and selecting the dashboard you have just imported.

.. figure:: ../data/install/opening_dashboard.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Opening your ROCm Compute Profiler dashboard in Grafana
   :width: 800

   Opening your ROCm Compute Profiler profiling dashboard in Grafana.

Remember that you need to upload workload data to the MongoDB backend before
analyzing in your Grafana interface. See a detailed example of this in
:ref:`grafana-gui-import`.

After a workload has been successfully uploaded, you should be able to select it
from the workload dropdown located at the top of your Grafana dashboard.

.. figure:: ../data/install/grafana_workload_selection.png
   :align: center
   :alt: ROCm Compute Profiler workload selection in Grafana
   :width: 800

   Selecting your ROCm Compute Profiler workload in Grafana.

For more information on how to use the Grafana interface for analysis see
:doc:`/how-to/analyze/grafana-gui`.
